Epstein, as I write, you know, [music]
came in to the offices of the Daily
Beast and I said, "What are you doing in
here?" He just looked at me and said,
"Just stop.
>> [music]
>> Just stop."
Back in the '80s and '90s, Tina Brown
was the queen of the New York City
magazine circuit. As the editor-in-chief
of Vanity Fair and The New Yorker, she
pioneered a now-ubiquitous mix of
gossipy Hollywood pieces, high society
scandal coverage, and hard-hitting
reporting.
>> [music]
>> In the decades since, she's become a
go-to expert on the state of the media,
the royal family, and a lot more. And I
was really curious to talk to her
because in a moment when there's so much
change and uncertainty in our media and
in our politics,
>> [music]
>> I thought it would be grounding to sit
down with someone who has the long view.
Gosh, this is the
the lad, a cove and And speaking of how
fast things change since we had this
conversation a few months ago, there's
been developments in some of the news
stories we talked about, like with
Andrew, the former prince, and Jeffrey
Epstein [music]
in particular. But our conversation is
still a really fun one with an important
[music] perspective that I thought a lot
about since we had it. I hope you enjoy
it.
Thank you so much for joining the
interview. I'm really really excited to
have you here. Delighted to be doing
this. I want to actually start by
reading some of you to you.
>> Mhm. Here's some of your descriptions of
some folks that we all know. Mark
Zuckerberg, Meta's slippery salamander.
Prince Harry, the ginger winger. Lauren
Sanchez has proved that landing the
fourth richest man in the world requires
the permanent display of breasts like
genetically modified grapefruit. And you
describe our president as Tyrannosaurus
Trump. It's wonderful writing. I just
wonder how you come up with these acid
descriptions.
>> Well, something happens, you know, when
I sort of hit the typewriter I the
typewriter, you know, that that dates
me. Something happens when I when I hit
the keyboard. And also, I think that
because I'm writing this Substack Fresh
Hell, it's a kind of I'm in a different
zone. I'm I'm sort of my diary self, if
you know what I mean. And I don't feel I
have to have any sort of restraint
anymore, which, you know, is very um
exciting to me as a writer, you know, I
I might write like that for my diary,
but you know, I haven't actually sort of
done a lot of that in print. I mean,
this is the thing that really comes
through that you sort of are writing now
like you just are not going to be
censored in any way. You're not You're
not afraid, I guess.
>> Well, you know, I sort of feel, you
know, I think of myself in the third
trimester of my my life rather than the
age of the And we'll go through your
many iterations. And uh
why not, you know, it's like I feel
liberated in some way. I don't care, you
know, uh and it's sort of great not to
in a way be sort of in charge of lots of
people either because I don't have to
worry, "Well, what happens if I want
that person to advertise or if I want to
put that person on the cover?" I can
just sort of let rip and um
it's it's liberating and I think it it's
needed actually, you know, because
there's so much kind of pussyfooting and
mealy-mouthing around that has been
going on in writing, it seems, for the
last sort of 10 years that now you can
just really have fun and I can have fun
anyway and I'm trying to. As you
mentioned, these descriptions come from
your Substack Fresh Hell, but before you
were on Substack, you were the original
queen of Condé Nast. Uh you became the
editor of Vanity Fair at 30 in 1984,
which is very sobering for those of us
who did not get to such august heights
uh so young. And then, of course, you
went on to run The New Yorker. You know,
there's a lot of nostalgia for that era
now. There's books, articles, podcasts.
Do you miss that time? What do you miss
about that time? Well, you're absolutely
right about the nostalgia. You know, my
my book, The Vanity Fair Diaries, which
I wrote, you know, seven or eight years
ago, people just keep coming up to me
and saying, "Oh, I've been reading it.
It's like the you know, I feel so
nostalgic for that period." I I think
it's because this was when work was so
much fun, you know? It's like all the
fun has come out of work because now,
for the journalism media world, it's all
about like how do you get a platform
that anybody will look at? How do you
raise the money for it? What can you say
that, you know, some sponsor doesn't
want you to say? It's like this was a
period that I lived through where it was
this hell-for-leather pursuit of great
stuff, you know? And I just had I had a
ball doing it. And the offices of Vanity
Fair were just the HQ of interesting,
adventurous
talent. And the same at The New Yorker.
I realize now how terribly lucky I was
at The New Yorker to be sitting there
with people like Art Spiegelman and Adam
Gopnik and David Remnick and Jane Mayer
and all these wonderful writers arguing
about what we were going to say in the
pieces, you know, whether we wanted to
use that story, whether we was whether
it was accurate, whether it was fair,
whether it was all these sort things
that we talked about were nothing to do
with like is our business going up in
flames. And that's unfortunately what
this latest generation have experienced
ever since they've begun their careers,
which is very, very sad. I mean, I have
a theory for why there is so much
nostalgia, which is even as the internet
has sort of democratized the way that
people get information and who gives
information, we've seen the whole system
that you presided over in that era sort
of be dismantled. And I think people are
craving a bit more of authority
um because
people want a guide through the muck.
They want some curation. I mean, the
gatekeepers have gone. Everyone goes,
"Yes, well, the gate" as if the
gatekeepers were some kind of um
you know, terrible uh you know,
inhibition to doing anything good. But
the gatekeepers were also the
tastemakers, you know? So, the the thing
about not having any gatekeepers means
that there is no one person who's got
the flair, the taste, and the courage to
say, "I like that. I want to do it."
Whether it's somebody running a
streaming service or somebody running,
you know, a book publishing company or
somebody running a magazine.
You want those people whose taste is
confident. And unfortunately, lacking
those gatekeepers now is just this big
blob out there of just sort of, you
know, stuff. stuff and dross that comes,
you know, careening at you. And you
don't know where to find the good stuff.
Um I think that's the biggest problem of
our time is that, you know, there is
brilliant writing out there. I mean, I
see it all the time.
But finding it is like the needle in the
haystack. It's like,
you know, what what did you I'm always
feeling, "What have I missed? What have
I missed?" cuz somebody will say, "Oh,
did you read that great piece?" It's
like, "Where? What?" But you know, I've
I've got like a thousand Substack, you
know, things. I'm reading social media.
I'm reading the the old guard stuff, but
my head is exploding.
There is nobody who can actually tell
you, very few anyway, that can corral
the good stuff for you and tell you this
is needed. And I I personally miss it
very much and I think other people miss
it. They're exhausted, you know? And
unfortunately, what it's leading to is
just a lot of people checking out. So,
it's it's it's a very demoralizing time.
You know, I'm always being asked by sort
of young people at you know, journalism
colleges and so on like, "What How do I
get into journalism?" And I look at them
sort of feeling like Often, I say
actually, you should go to India because
India, in fact, has a very vibrant
literary culture, you know? There's not
much of a literary culture about
anymore, you know? Um India, for some
reason, there's a lot of sort of
interest in intellectual debate and uh
you know, you go out and everybody's
talking about articles and pieces and
books and there seems to be a great deal
of energy. So, um it's a long way to go,
shall we say? I just can't believe that
you are
>> [laughter]
>> that your advice is go to India.
>> popular, I will say that. When I say
that, you do see the light fade from the
eyes, you know?
>> [laughter]
>> I would be a little demoralized if
that's the advice that I was getting now
[clears throat] trying to break in. Um I
want to get back um
to your early career a little later, but
you are actually an authority on some
pretty current things that are happening
that actually had their roots in um that
era of the '80s and the '90s. And and
one of them, of course, is um
Jeffrey Epstein.
>> Mhm. You knew Jeffrey Epstein. You knew
Ghislaine Maxwell socially. Um in your
book, The Palace Papers, you described
her as omnipresent in the social scene.
She was always at book launches and
cocktail parties. How did you understand
their relationship? Was it love? Was it
money? Was it both? Well, I mean, I
didn't I I I didn't understand their
relationship at the time because you
never saw Epstein with her, actually.
When when when Ghislaine was kind of
working the scene,
I think
Epstein was slightly in her rearview
mirror when I knew her. I didn't really
know about that background with Epstein
until, you know, I read about it later.
I think that she was an abused figure
herself, actually. I mean, her father,
Robert Maxwell, was a really terrible,
tyrannical guy and a press baron at the
time and a crook, you know, he also,
very ironically for her in terms of her
life story, he also died mysteriously in
a suicide or was it a murder when he
went over the side of his boat having
robbed the pension fund. So, he was a
crook, the father, but he was a crook
that was the king of the world for a
time. So, she was raised, you know, in
that atmosphere of the glorious press
baron only to find that, in fact, he was
a crook. So, she had that sort of
trauma, but I also had this great sort
of story in in in my book, which I found
when I was reporting The Palace Papers,
that she took somebody up to her room
when she was a little girl to show her
her room and she said, um and all the
brushes were like her hairbrushes were
laid out on the on the counter and she
said, "Oh, yes," she said, "those are
the my hairbrushes. Daddy lets me choose
one uh when he wants to beat me."
He was sort of asking her to curate her
own punishment abuse
>> to abuse. So, that I think is at the
core of it, that she her father was this
really terrible person. But I think with
Epstein, she was mad about him, you
know, I think she was crazy about
Epstein and the only way she felt she
could sort of get into his
sort of good graces, if you like, was to
sort of partake, participate in and in
the end, you know, curate his his abuse
of young women. And
you know, one thing I really strongly
feel now is that there's a kind of sense
that Ghislaine was his sort of procurer.
Okay, that's bad enough. But actually,
when you read the new recent book by
Virginia Giuffre, who of course was the
sex slave of Epstein,
it's so clear that, you know, she wasn't
just a procurer. That's bad enough, but
she was a real participant in the sexual
abuse. I mean, she joined in in the
threesomes and, you know, hurting the
girls during sexual, you know,
activities and she wasn't just a
stand-in for Epstein. She was a as I
think Virginia says, you know, twin,
they were twin halves of the same evil.
And I think that's true, actually. But
you never would have known it from
seeing her work those those parties and
I think she deserves to, you know, rot
in that prison a very long time, in my
view.
Do you think she will? I wouldn't be at
all surprised if on his way out, Trump
does pardon her when MAGA no longer
counts. After all, once he's gone out of
there, why should he care about MAGA
anymore? He won't. He will have, you
know,
the crypto coffers will be full and he
might want to pardon Ghislaine just
because he can. But I think if he did it
now, it would be there would be a real
uproar. You know, in the early 2010s,
when you oversaw the Daily Beast, you
ran one of the first national series on
the Epstein stories. And
>> Yes. And you noted after you wrote about
that period, um that they didn't really
stick at the time. They didn't. I mean,
when we published Conchita Sarnoff, uh
who was a campaigner for sexual
trafficking, she brought the story to
us. We were the very first to run the
piece about the sweetheart deal between
Acosta in the in Florida, uh the DA,
with Jeffrey Epstein, where he got a
sort of, you know, light slap on the
wrist punishment.
>> Who then became, of course, Trump's
labor secretary in the first term. And
so we ran that piece. I mean, then we
ran these other pieces and Epstein, as I
write, you know, came in to the offices
of the Daily Beast and tried to stop me
running it.
Uh I never knew to this day how he got
past security, but because nobody said
Jeffrey Epstein's coming up. But I got
back from the art department where I was
working and there he was sitting there
with his very cold, dead eyes and I and
I said, "What are you doing in here?" He
just looked at me and said, "Just stop.
Just
stop."
And it was a very chilling encounter. I
said, you know, "Jeffrey, if you have
something to say, you know, say it to
our lawyers." You know, we escorted him
out.
He didn't follow up. Why didn't he
follow up? Well, he decided, I think,
instead he would go on a kind of blitz
about his philanthropy, which he did. I
mean, from that day he was sort of
constantly sending out releases about
all this philanthropy he was doing. And
I think he thought he'd sort of got away
with it. What changed, of course, I
think was Me Too. You know, when Julie
K. Brown did her brilliant series in the
Miami Herald, that was after Me Too. And
and after Me Too, people began to be
much, much more focused on abuse of
powerful men of young women. So, I think
at the time that we published it,
Epstein wasn't that well known. He was
it was a kind of in insider social
story. He was some guy, rich circuit,
nobody really knew Jeffrey Epstein. It
went away very quickly and I and I think
it shows how how times have very much
changed that post-Me Too, things have
changed, I'm glad to say. You know, one
of the stories in that series um that
you ran was headlined Epstein Society
Friends Close Ranks. It's a chilling
story, actually, having read it
recently. Um someone in the piece said,
"A jail sentence doesn't matter anymore.
The only thing that gets you shunned in
New York society is poverty." Just just
incredibly callous.
>> it is true. And listen, I was invited to
um a dinner after he had been convicted.
A publicist called me in the office at
the Daily Beast and she said, "Tina, I
want you to come to this great dinner
with I'm hosting." And she said, "It's
at Jeffrey Epstein's house and the other
guests are Charlie Rose, Woody Allen and
Prince Andrew." [laughter]
I mean, it really does make you laugh.
This is the one that's profiled in this
piece. This is how you knew about it.
>> That's right. And I and I and I it's
very funny because
Lloyd Grove, who's a journalist at the
Beast, reminds me whenever I see him, he
was sitting right there when I yelled
into the phone, "What the hell is this?
The Predator's Ball?" You know, because
I was outraged that she hadn't seemed to
read our pieces, you know, about this
guy. "No, thank you very much. I
decline. You know, I don't want to have
dinner at Jeffrey Epstein's house."
Well, you bring up someone who, again,
is in the news, which is Prince Andrew,
and one of your other specialties is the
royal family. You've written books about
that. The case that you make in The
Palace Papers, which I found really
interesting, is that peripheral royals
are
a real problem for the royal family
because they're more susceptible to
getting into unsavory entanglements
because they have no money, but they
have a lot of influence and they have a
lot of cachet and people want
pay-for-play. And so you've seen sort of
iterations of this um throughout the
history of the royal family. You know,
it's pretty well understood that when
William becomes king, he wants to sort
of sweep house and make a lot of
changes. I'm wondering, as someone who
has studied the royal family and and
knows it so well, what changes do you
think he should make? Well, yes, I mean,
I think that William was quite
beady-eyed when he was interviewed uh
recently by Eugene Levy on The Reluctant
Traveler and he did that sort of rather
unexpected interview,
where he said, "There will be changes."
Looking very sort of grim. I think it's
safe to say that changes are on my
agenda. Not overly radical change, but
changes that I think
need to happen. I think he's just dying
to clean house, actually. I mean, I I
think that
some of the palaces probably have to be
turned over to the public. I mean, how
many how many how much over-housing do
you need in that family? I mean, there
are so many I think that, you know, he
will probably probably do some of that.
There has to be more transparency about
the royal finances. I think that, you
know, the truth is they've been quite
brilliant at staying pretty opaque about
where all this money comes from, you
know, in different directions. And you
know, don't forget the queen was there
for 70 years, right? So, you know, the
hagiography around the queen is is
intense, you know, I mean, you're not
allowed to ever criticize the queen. The
fact is that she has quite a lot to
answer for with Andrew's truth because
the queen enabled Andrew in a in a in a
really terrible way. He was her
favorite, you know, she protected him
and mommy was the only person his only
client, essentially, you know, I mean,
she was the one who protected him. So,
unfortunately, it it it made him worse,
you know, I mean, he was never
made to stand up and and be counted,
essentially. Because we have to close
the circle on royal scandals, Harry and
Meghan are also trying to make their own
way
in the world. They've had a rocky time
being entrepreneurs. Do you think they
have anything to offer anymore? I think
it's very sad what's happened to them,
actually. I really do. I mean, they've
just made so many mistakes. I have never
seen anybody in professional life make
as many mistakes
certainly as
as Meghan has. And unfortunately, Harry
is not the brightest bulb, either. So,
he he thought that Meghan would be his
great sort of guide in the in the big
wide world beyond Buckingham Palace, as
it were. And it turns out that Meghan
makes one terrible professional decision
after another. And now they're sort of
pariahs everywhere, it seems, which, you
know, is is a very difficult situation
for them because America was supposed to
be the place which paid the bills. And I
mean, what is uh sad, I think, is that
Harry's very good at being a prince.
He's actually very good at it. I mean,
if there is such a thing as being a
prince, he knows how to do it. You know,
he's charming, he's upbeat, he's
attractive, he makes people happy when
he walks into a room, he's very good
with young people, you could send him
around the world and he's always going
to be welcomed and and and appealing. Um
and I think he's realized too late that
sort of he was born to be a prince.
And um
now he's essentially just some kind of
guy doing PR gigs um
while Meghan, you know, tries out her
latest, you know, cooking idea or what,
you know. And it looks really more and
more as if Harry's best sort of decision
would be to to find a way to come back
to to England. I'd like to see a way for
him to sort of make amends with his
family, but I I I think it's it gets
harder and harder as the years go by,
let's put it that way. And I think that
William is going to be the decider of
that and I think William is a very tough
uh has a very tough view of the whole
situation, which is the betrayal of
Harry is not, you know, something that
can be um
remedied. Why is this something that you
keep coming back to, the royal family? I
mean, obviously, where you started in
the UK,
um
you you sort of brushed up against it,
but why has it been an enduring sort of
interest?
>> Well, lots of reasons. First of all,
when I write about the royals, it
enables me to write about a lot of other
things, too, right? Which do fascinate
me. Class, you know, British society,
celebrity culture.
These things all pertain to these royal
stories, so that's very interesting to
me. The other thing that's very
interesting to me is the ongoing human
drama of real people with real
feelings and hurts and pains and joys
uh
in tension with a monarchical system,
which is a thousand years old.
So, that is in itself extremely
interesting, you know, you have that
people who are as human as you and I,
but they're actually in this cage and
somehow have to find a life inside it.
Now, you could almost argue it's too
cruel a predicament for modern humans.
Um as promised, I wanted to get back to
your time editing uh the big magazines
where you started. Anna Wintour,
uh the great you know, the great Vogue
editor is um stepping down.
Uh she was there while you were at VF
and The New Yorker. You're both women
who've broken a lot of barriers. Um
contemporaries at the time.
How do you see her legacy? I mean, I
think Anna's really remarkable. I mean,
she's got such an incredible work ethic.
And
I mean, she just in a sense, I mean, she
became Condé Nast. I mean, she became uh
she went from being the editor of Vogue
to being sort of the actual sort of
connective tissue
>> Connective tissue for the entire
company.
And I mean, hats off to her. That's
obviously something she wanted to do. I
I think it must have been a kind of a
bit nightmarish for her to be staying in
that same environment as it changed and
changed and changed. But, you know,
she's always found a way to reinvent. I
think her role though is really a
difficult one because
you know, the whole question of of a
magazine company like Condé Nast has
changed so utterly from the times when
we were there in the great days when
S.I. Newhouse Jr. owned it. And we were
so lucky to have him, actually, living
working in this private company where we
were just allowed to get on with our
work and our creativity. And I think a
lot of her time now is spent on all this
kind of corporate
hell. Mhm. So, um
you know, I think that she must love
what she does. Do you regret leaving
Condé Nast when you did? I mean, when
you look at her career and like you
said, she became Condé Nast. She her
sort of legacy is very much cemented.
You could have had that, too.
>> [laughter]
>> Do I regret leaving the New Yorker to go
and work with Harvey Weinstein? Is that
Let's cut [laughter] to the chase here.
We'll get to Harvey Weinstein.
Um, but
>> I don't think that was a brilliant
career move. I have to say.
Uh, so I certainly regret that. Mhm. Um,
but I've also had a very interesting
life since, you know. I was never going
to be a keeper at Condé Nast, you know.
I mean, I was there for 17 years. That's
a long time. Mhm. Personally,
[clears throat] I think 10 years is is
the right amount of time to be the
editor of something. I I was actually I
was 8 and 1/2 years at Vanity Fair and
then I was I think 6 and 1/2 years at
the New Yorker when I left lured away by
Harvey Weinstein to start Talk magazine.
But, um
you know, I'm a very restive creative
person and there's no way that I would
have ever stayed to be to be the symbol
of Condé Nast. No. You you've kind of
touched on it in some of your writings
about that period and knowing what the
'80s and '90s were like, you know, I
imagine it was pretty sexist. Yeah. You
know, we're we're at a moment now with a
lot of regression in terms of the way
women are talked about, perceived, what
their role in society is viewed as.
I'm wondering what you remember about
that time. Well, my my major
frustration, and it was sexist, I didn't
think at the time but I now realize it
was,
was that as as
great as S.I. Newhouse was sort of as a
boss,
it was a very patronizing relationship
in the sense that it was about he would
not be he was not interested in my views
of how the business should be run Mhm.
essentially. I said I thought we should
have a production company. I thought we
should be doing festivals, you know,
conferences. I did one conference. I
managed to slip one in. And I said I
think we should be doing live events.
And I laid out this whole kind of thing.
And he just looked at me and he said,
"Stick to your knitting, Tina. You're an
editor."
Is that a quote? That is a quote.
And I just was like so
bummed, you know, by the whole thing,
you know, and um I must say one of the
things I find exciting at the moment
actually is the fact to see Bari Weiss,
you know, who's who's created the Free
Press and has sold it now to the
Ellisons for 150 million and has gone on
to run CBS. I thought that's just so
great that she was able to be heard
essentially as someone whose business
concept was a you know, was right and
correct and interesting.
So, she's she shows, I think,
the difference in the eras, if you like.
Well, we should say that your Substack
has been reprinted on the Free Press. It
has. Oh, yes, yes, it has. Yes, yes. No,
I I'm an admirer actually. I was very
curious to think about what you would
make of her. Well, I mean, I think Bari
saw the rise of
irritation with woke culture as it was
said and she wrote it to the to the top,
if you know what I mean. She created
sort of Free Press around that
irritation, if you like, and did it very
well.
Um, she has a bigger challenge now that
the Trump world has turned
that whole concept into something so
much more ugly, frankly.
And I think that's going to be a real
challenge for her, actually, because
[clears throat]
now she's running uh, but being put in
charge of CBS,
on charge of CBS, what is she going to
do when the first call comes from the
White House telling her
uh, they hate the story that's in
preparation, you know, and she is
supposed to be defending journalism. I
think that's going to be very, very
difficult, frankly, for her. And if I'd
been advising her, I would have said,
"Take the money for the Free Press, but
don't get involved with CBS." But, you
know, she didn't ask my opinion on that.
Another person who came after you is
Graydon Carter, who also wrote his
memoir recently. And he wrote in his
memoir some things that were perhaps
less flattering about you. Yeah. He said
that the first 2 years there were pretty
dreadful in part because, I'm quoting,
"The Tina Brown allies who had been left
behind were deeply hostile and
subversive. And then when he arrived,
there was almost nothing lying around
that I thought was worth publishing."
Were you surprised to read that? I
actually didn't read it because I'd
heard so much about it that by the time
I got it, I sort of didn't want to read
it. Look, I left behind a whole team. I
mean, whether they were subversive or
not, I I have no idea. I mean, at that
point, my head was totally in the New
Yorker. So, you know, if they were
subversive, it had nothing to do with me
because I was out of there. I mean, I'm
I'm very much a person who
the door shuts and I'm gone, you know. I
I was deep in the New Yorker's very
challenging culture itself of having all
these old guard people who I had to woo
or fire or romance or whatever. So, I
wasn't involved in his first 2 years. I
had nothing to do with any of that. And
as to have there being nothing lying
around, I'm I'm surprised to hear that
cuz there were a lot of great pieces
that were left behind.
>> [laughter]
>> So, yeah. No, but he did a great job
himself, you know. I mean, I don't know
quite why he remains sort of weirdly
um
sort of bitter about me. I don't know
because he did a great job at
Vanity Fair and was a great success. So,
what is there to be bitter about? I'm
not sure. I mean, he wrote that he'd
heard a rumor that the style director of
the magazine would go to your apartment
to help style your clothes for the day.
You bet. She did. She'd come over every
morning? No, not every morning. If I was
going to go and do something like, you
know, go to some big event, I would
certainly have her I'd ask her to come
over and help me. For sure. Why wouldn't
I? I think every everybody would, you
know. She had much better taste in
clothes than I did. Why do you think he
brought these things up? I mean, what do
you think
>> Because I think, look, again, I mean,
I'm afraid hate to say it, but I think
it's the sort of the sexist way of
looking at women. I I don't really know.
I I I think it's the sort of
condescending myth that, you know, that
made makes men feel better sometimes,
you know, because we're very
threatening. Mhm. And therefore, you
know, my success had to be wrapped
around with a kind of
um somewhat belittling
sort of uh
rocket
imagery. [laughter]
I have to say that what what's used to
amuse me really is that, you know, when
I got awards you know, as an editor,
they would always that the citations
were always so much more
um
sort of
silly than than those citations that men
would get. It would be like, "Tina Brown
is the the buzzy
you know, um
you know, irreverent editor of the you
know, it's like, "Excuse me, I just was
you know, I just published a 30,000 word
piece about, you know, an El Salvador
atrocity, you know. And I'm still like
the buzzy like as if I'm some kind of a
you know, can-can dancer or something,
you know." But, I've sort of got used to
that now.
>> You hate that word. I've seen you I've
seen you in your writings say that you
just hate that word buzzy.
>> It's a silly word. You know, the whole
thing about buzz
is people are talking about what you've
written, okay?
Isn't that what we all want? Mhm. You
want to you want to land into silence?
You want to publish something into a
sort of
cosmic darkness out there?
>> [laughter]
>> You know?
If I published a magazine and people
weren't talking about it, I'd failed.
Mhm. You know, so
yeah, I know. So, I I am
I sometimes sign my letters the
erstwhile queen of buzz.
>> [laughter]
[gasps]
>> The once [clears throat] and future,
perhaps. I am wondering what your take
is on this current media moment where
we're seeing a lot of very fraught
relationships between media
organizations and people with money. The
LA Times, the Washington Post, David
Ellison,
the son of Larry, one of the richest men
in the world who is now in charge of
Paramount and CBS. And obviously,
outlets, especially now, need to have a
relationship with people with money and
they always have had that relationship.
I just wonder, why do you think people
like this get involved in journalism? I
wish that they would learn something
about journalism before they leap in and
think that they can
just simply buy journalism and then
start to insert themselves. I mean, I am
so bored, frankly, with sort of the
uber-rich thinking that just because
they're rich, they know everything about
everything. Because they don't, you
know. And they're so disrespectful,
frankly, of our business, if you like.
You know, I don't think that I know
anything about
you know, I don't know rockets. Rockets
or or whatever it is that happens on
Amazon's platforms. I mean, I would be
humbled in the face of such
you know, brilliant engineers or
whatever. But, they have absolutely no
respect for us.
Absolutely none. And that is my major
beef, you know, essentially with the
digital barons. I am probably burning
with resentment about it at all times,
actually.
>> [laughter]
>> Really? Yes, absolutely. I find it
intolerable, to be honest, because I
have such respect for journalists and
and and for instance, investigative
journalism to the point that, you know,
I was married to a great journalist,
Harry Evans.
And I started a foundation in his name
and and a
fellowship for young people who who
are good investigative journalists. So,
I have a strong belief in in in our
profession and
it's a very proud profession and I don't
like seeing it being turned into this
kind of commodity
by people who I would have thought one
or two of them might care about about
it. You know, you think one or two of
them would care, but they don't seem to.
You know, it's tragic.
I don't think we can talk about sort of
this era for journalism without talking
about the president Donald Trump. You
and he again were coming up in that same
era. I'm not You've really got it in for
the 80s, haven't you?
I I just wonder what did he learn back
then you think that has made him such a
master manipulator of the media and the
attention economy today? We got it all
from Roy Cohn, didn't he? Which is like
never apologize, say whatever you want
and never admit that you're wrong and
keep your mind on, you know, the only
thing that's important, which is the
deal and the money.
And I mean, I actually think that Trump
this time has really decided that this
is going to be
about collecting the biggest haul that
he can. You know, in days when there was
more of a collective media, you could do
a big story about say, you know, the
corruption of the current Trump
administration and people would have
read it and talked about it and paid
attention to it. Now it appears it often
doesn't land the stuff because people
are reading different things. I mean,
they're not reading the same thing. So,
he's understood this and this is where
Trump is really brilliant. I mean, he is
an amazing communicator and he
understands
that
people won't pay attention and so as a
great producer, which he is,
he knows that like every two or three
weeks he has to produce another
distraction. He knows that people will
not be paying attention. They don't and
he understands that brilliantly, I think
and um
it's it's the reason it's all getting
torn apart. I mean, how
do you shock people in an era where
there is no shame? Well, it has to be
simple. That's the thing we've learned.
People never will understand for
instance crypto, all the crypto deals.
It's never going to land because people
don't even understand what crypto is. I
mean,
let's just rent
Sam Bankman-Fried to explain it to us. I
don't understand what a blockchain is. I
mean, you know, it's like people don't
understand what that is. It has to be
something they can really see. Like you
remember the Menendez
corruption case, Senator Robert Menendez
and they found these gold bars in his
closet. Okay, that we understand. We get
that.
Big gold bars in a guy's closet,
corruption. See it, you know.
It's almost like we need a scandal with
Trump where people can really understand
what happened, you know, and it's
interesting that the Epstein case has
got as far as it has,
but pedophilia is something people
understand. And it has a face. And it
has a face and I think that Trump has
actually misjudged that one. I mean, he
thought that he could ride that until he
was president and then sweep it away.
I'm not sure that he can. He might find
that it does keep surfacing because it's
really something people can understand
and feel horrified by. Who is the most
odious person in media right now? God,
so many.
I'm so disappointed in Jeff Bezos, I
have to say. I saw him as a a big savior
of the Washington Post and it seems like
he's just totally flipped. I mean,
Tucker Carlson really mystifies me. He
worked for me at Talk magazine. Did he?
Yeah, my two political correspondents
were
Jake Tapper and Tucker Carlson. Well,
they seem to have done all right. They
both have done extremely well.
But Tucker was a really good writer. I
mean, he was such a good writer that I
thought he was a star writer. You know,
I would have certainly had him at the
New Yorker. He had such a wonderful gift
of phrase of tone of phrase. He had a
kind of satirical eye. He was he was a
wonderful
and something strange happened. You
know, he had a head transplant and
turned it into this kind of
frothing lunatic and I don't understand
what happened to him. So, there's been
[music] people who have changed and I
think what has shocked me really about
this era is how fast people can change.
Tina Brown, thank [music] you so much.
We're going to speak again,
but I really appreciate you coming in.
Thank you.
>> [music]
>> On the interview, we talked to our guest
twice. Two weeks later, we spoke again,
this time without cameras and Tina told
me why New York elites are [music]
scared of Zohran Mamdani.
Hi. Hi Lulu, how are you? I'm very well,
thank you. How are you? I'm in London
and having pretty great time, I have to
say. So, since we last spoke,
there have been to say the least some
developments on the Prince Andrew front.
King Charles stripped him of his last
remaining titles. He is no longer a
prince, evicted him from Royal Lodge.
>> [snorts]
>> So, are we at the end of the Prince
Andrew
sorry saga?
Well, the problem is I fear we're not.
What you saw really in the last couple
of weeks was the sort of result in a
sense of the kind of conflict and
dithering really of the king
who didn't want to go as far as he had
to go, sort of pushed by public opinion.
I mean, it would have been much better
if he'd simply stripped him of all of
his honors originally, you know, or
rather that had been done in 2019 when
his mother was there.
Instead of which, you know, it's been
allowed to kind of bleed out in one
episode after the next.
I do think that
that he actually should have left the
country. But
how it's all going to work out, I don't
I don't think they've really solved it,
no.
It's better than it was. I mean, isn't
part of the problem with someone like
Andrew that if you cut him off
completely and you kick him out of the
royal family utterly, then he is a loose
cannon out in the world with no means of
supporting himself and could wreak all
sorts of havoc? Indeed. No, I mean, he
would have only his secrets to sell
essentially. And they can't allow that
to happen and the same is true of Fergie
who is such a wild loose cannon. So,
they have to be kept sort of under
control, but it's pretty hard for them
to do that and um
I think when William is king, you know,
I think he might be even tougher on the
situation. I don't quite know what he
could do to make it even tougher, but I
think he will be.
Are you a royalist? I'm certainly I'd
much rather have a royal family than
you know, a republic. I I've come to see
that actually countries which do have a
monarchy tend to be more stable.
And I think that, you know, they do
rally the nation. They can change the
mood by their sort of ability to just be
above politics and I think being above
politics
is a huge asset right now to any nation.
Well, speaking of politics,
that brings us to something that
happened since we last spoke as well,
which is a big earthquake in your
adopted city of New York,
new mayor Zohran Mamdani
who has very much scared, I think, the
plutocratic class.
I know. [laughter]
It's great. It's wonderful that he's
done that. I mean, tell me, what does
his rise do you think say about how
people are feeling about the elite world
of tastemakers that you came up in and
the elite in general?
Well, I think honestly, it was a a
battle cry that absolutely needed to be
sounded. You know, I mean,
we have
in the last sort of few years been so
bullied by the super rich. There's a
sense that the rich are the ones who
have the voice
in every debate, whether it's about, you
know, academia or or just the way the
nation is run or how we live our lives
in, you know, with the tech revolution,
etc. And people have felt, I think, more
and more hopeless about
the enormity of the wealth and the
impossibility of sort of fighting it for
regular, as it were, people.
And I do think that Mamdani has shown
how to get your sort of fight back and
has won against all those people. I
mean, it's it's very inspiring, you
know, coming up from nowhere and yet the
power of his ability to sort of excite
and inspire people has made people feel,
you know, what?
You know, money doesn't just buy and
everything. I mean, all that money went
into kind of stopping him and he he
still won and you don't have to like his
ideas even to just be glad of that. I'm
sort of very glad of it.
What do you think happens next?
I think we're underestimating the power
of of humanity and I sort of think
that's what the Mamdani showed. I mean,
we've tended all to think that this is
the inevitable direction, you know, the
AI
Uber barons, etc. dictate how we're all
going to live and then we'll inherit the
earth. Everybody else is a kind of a
peasant. You know, that all of these
things have become a very depressing.
>> We all end up as like drones and slaves
to our technology. Exactly. We're all
just going to be drones and slaves and I
think that we will be to a certain
extent, but I kind of also I'm beginning
to think
that maybe humanity has a bit more juice
in it
>> [laughter]
>> than they might anticipate. And you
know, things can change very very
quickly in America. It's one of the
reasons I love living in America is
it's, you know, it's a very exciting
place. The whole mood can change
overnight, you know, and all of a sudden
people will just turn around and say,
look, I don't want you deciding how my
life is going to go. I I so I'm feeling
quite optimistic this at the moment.
You know, one of the things I really
thought about since our last
conversation is how valuable it is to
have people with a wide lens on history
talking about this sort of very strange,
very unsettling moment, which is one of
the reasons I wanted to talk to you.
But it also made me think about your
late husband Harry Evans who was a
legendary journalist in his own right.
He was 25 years older than you. Did he
see things differently than you because
you were from different generations and
did he help give you a different
perspective? He did, yes, because I'd
never met anybody who had more
passionate moral convictions than Harry
had and sometimes people thought because
he was such a kind of congenial sort of
joyful kind of personality,
they might have mistaken that for
someone who was perhaps pliable.
But actually, when it came to his moral
convictions, he was absolutely
rock solid. And he also never gave up,
you see. I mean, this is the thing that
I used to most admire about Harry. He
was so tenacious. And he was so outraged
by things. He never lost his capacity
for outrage at all. Never. And always
was thinking of ways that, you know,
he would fight back. And in fact, when
he didn't have a paper anymore, you
know, that was actually kind of painful
for him because, you know, he would say
like, with a school shooting, he'd say,
"Why aren't they, you know, every member
of the NRA, let's get their pictures,
put them on the front page, you know,
like name them, shame them, you know."
So, you know, he had this incredible
fight in him. And uh
you know, it always lifted me up and
made me feel you should never just
simply be a bystander to amorality and
malfeasance of any kind. He He refused
to be a bystander in life. He was a man
of the arena. He believed in it. And I
think that's what really rubbed off on
me.
Mhm.
He passed away 5 years ago. Yes. I'm
just wondering how you have dealt with
that loss because it was a real
partnership. It really was. I mean, it
was It's, you know, it's agony. I I miss
him every every single day, you know. I
mean, I really do. I mean, he
he was such so sustaining to me. So, you
know, it it it's tough, you know, you go
to things on your own and you got no one
to come back and scream with laughter
about, you know, the pretentiousness of
the evening that you've just had, which
is what I would do with him. Uh so,
yeah, no, I I I miss him enormously uh
you know, as do the children, but um
I mean, knowing that he was older meant
I knew that this moment would come. And
um when it did, it was still
much more agonizing than I ever thought
it would be.
Mhm.
I mean, you mentioned your children. You
wrote an essay in this paper last year
talking about your son who has a
developmental disability.
He lives with you. He's in his late 30s.
I imagine that having a son who's part
of a very vulnerable sector of society
has changed your perspective on power
and its uses.
Yeah, I mean, you know, it's certainly
true that Georgie's
um he actually recently moved out to his
own little apartment just around the
corner, which is really sweet. I mean,
it means I see him just as much, but,
you know, we have to walk a block.
Um I definitely think that when you're
part of the community of parents
whose children are not going to be, you
know, who who are not talking about, you
know, going to Harvard and all the rest
of it,
it does give you a a really different
outlook on the world. And um
I think that Georgie has made me much
more
connected to people who uh you know,
everything isn't so perfect. And um
the pain of seeing people, for instance,
you know, who who don't have any um
resources, contacts, whatever to make
the situation easier is, you know, I
think about it all the time. I mean,
it's it's hard enough having a child
with these kind of issues when you do
have resources and, you know, you do
have enough income to be able to bring
in people to help and support and so
forth. If you don't, I, you know, it's
unbearable. And these are never
discussed, these problems. I mean, it's
never a a cool cause, if you like, to
talk about these issues. But behind the
closed doors of millions of houses and
apartments, there are,
you know, frankly, sort of desperate
mothers, and it usually is the mother,
who does not know what to do with that
the fact they now have an adult living
with them who they're going to have to
support probably for the rest of their
lives. And then what will happen
afterwards, you know?
I mean, if if I had cloned myself three
times over with time, you know, I would
spend most of my time on that problem
because I just think it's one of the
great silent issues of our times right
now.
How was it when your son moved out? I
mean, must have been bittersweet. Well,
I yeah, I actually really miss him cuz
he used to sort of
you know, he's completely unfiltered,
which is one of his most hilarious
attributes. So, I mean, I'd be in the
middle of a Zoom and he'd sort of wander
past with his towel, you know, from the
shower. And he's sort of, you know, just
his towel and he'd be sort of start
talking in the middle of my Zoom and I
would be saying like, you know, "Get out
of my Zoom, Georgie. Get out of my
Zoom." You know, but now I kind of
really miss him looming in in his crazy
sort of way.
There's a a real sweetness to having
that person, you know, in one's life. We
were like we became like the odd couple,
you know, having this
rubbing along together. And um I
secretly wish he would move back,
actually. I'm slightly working on it.
>> [laughter]
>> I'm just wondering, you know, we've sort
of run through
the gamut of your life and
I'm thinking about the last 5 years in
particular since your husband died and
and now your son's moved out.
And it reminds me of something that you
said in our first conversation, which is
that you've been really shocked by
how fast people can change.
And so,
I want to ask you, how have you changed
in the past 5 years as a journalist and
as a person?
>> [snorts]
>> Well, I mean, you know, I I I think that
um
I'm not someone who sort of looks back
and sighs and says, "Oh, it was all
so different." And And Harry was a
wonderful example of that. He was always
just as passionately excited about what
he was doing at that moment than he was,
you know, at the height of his career.
So, I've learned I've learned how to
really take pleasure from
the moment that we're in and not to be
someone obsessed with the past.
Mhm.
Last question. What should the headline
for this interview be?
>> [laughter]
>> Dinosaurs still rule the earth.
>> [gasps]
>> Question mark.
Oh, no, I think exclamation point, at
the very least.
You are an exclamation [music] point,
for sure.
>> [laughter]
>> Well, thank you, Lulu. I enjoyed talking
to you. I've loved talking to you, too.
Tina Brown, thanks again. Thank you.
I'm Lulu [music] Garcia Navarro. And I'm
David Marchese. And we're the hosts of
The Interview, an audio and video
podcast from The New York Times. Every
week we interview fascinating and
influential people from all walks of
life. Subscribe to our YouTube channel
so you'll never miss an episode.